Roll no: 2k18/csee/124

                                                  Running Symbolic Execution Forever



  
    Authors: 
(1)Frank  Busse
 
(2)Martin  Nowack
 
(3)Cristian Cadar
 

Publication:
ISSTA 2020: Proceedings of the 29th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and AnalysisJuly 2020 


INTRODUCTION:
For testing real-world software systems, symbolic execution is often
proposed as a method for thoroughly enumerating and testing
every potential path through an application. While achieving full
enumeration is usually impossible due to the fundamental challenge
of the state-space explosion problem, even a subset of paths can be
used to find bugs or generate a high-coverage test suite [4, 7, 14].
And typically, the more paths are explored, the better the outcome.
With the multitude of paths, performing symbolic execution
on a modern machine quickly consumes all available memory. 






CONCLUSION:

In this paper, we have presented an approach which enables symbolic execution to run indefinitely on large applications while continuing to explore new paths. Our approach is based on memoization, enhanced with support for divergence detection, switching
search heuristics between record and replay time, and efficient
storage which preserves the structure of the execution tree. We
implemented our approach in MoKlee, an extension of the popular
symbolic execution engine KLEE, and performed an extensive evaluation on 93 Linux applications. Our evaluation shows practical
space and runtime overheads, high re-execution speed, effective
divergence detection and applicability to iterative deepening and
long-running symbolic execution analysis.








Methodology:

A natural use case for memoization is iterative deepening, which is
able to mimic BFS exploration with much lower memory consumption by repeatedly exploring a program with DFS up to a certain
(increasing) depth in the execution tree.
For this experiment, we select and run the set of non-Coreutils
applications with BFS exploration until KLEE’s default memory
limit of 2 GB is exceeded. At this point, we cannot run in BFS mode
anymore without losing paths. Instead, we employ iterative deepening, making use of the memory-friendly DFS in each iteration.
Two of the benchmarks, diff and readelf , had very long runtimes
and we decided to reduce the solver timeout in both cases to 1 s.
Also, we excluded find from the selected benchmarks because of
its large number of divergences (see Table 1).
As starting depth values for iterative deepening, we choose
the minimum tree depths for which states are terminated due to
memory pressure (𝑑 = 22 for diff , 13 for grep, 42 for libspng, 22 for
readelf and 19 for tcpdump). We iteratively increase the depths by
five more levels (to 𝑑 +5), once without and once with memoization
(including path pruning)









Result:

Finally, we report the distribution of pruned states for all reexecutions in Figure 11. The more states can be pruned, the fewer instructions have to be re-executed. Obviously, the set of pruned states
in a complete re-execution is independent of the search strategy used
during re-execution. The difference between RndCov/RndCov and
RndCov/DFS is merely caused by the different sets of non-diverging
applications. The outlier in the experiments with a recorded DFS
execution is yes. By executing an endless loop, yes creates a very
deep path that never terminates and hence can’t be pruned.
Non-Coreutils applications. For these applications, we memoize 2 h runs only with RndCov and use both exploration strategies
on re-execution. Table 1 shows for each run the number of recorded
instructions, the time needed by the re-execution, the number of
instructions successfully replayed and the number of diverging
states.